The Ladar Manifesto
===================

**One of the key challenges in software development is managing obsolete technologies**.
When libraries or technologies become outdated, they create critical vulnerabilities and
slow down innovation. The example of **OpenSSL**, with the Heartbleed security
flaw, clearly illustrates the dangers of using aging libraries. Despite these obvious
risks, some companies continue to rely on unmaintained technologies, increasing their
**exposure to cyberattacks and compromising the security of their systems**.

For **businesses, technological obsolescence poses a major risk**, not only in terms of
security but also financially and competitively. Relying on outdated technologies
lengthens development cycles, increases maintenance costs, and limits the ability to
adopt innovations, directly impacting competitiveness. Companies that delay modernizing
their systems often find themselves managing crises, such as those caused by
vulnerabilities in obsolete systems, damaging their reputation and leading to
significant **financial losses**.

From the perspective of **development teams**, **migration** presents another major
challenge. The transition from **Python 2 to Python 3** is a prime example. This
migration was necessary to take advantage of new features and maintain project security,
but it also revealed how long and complex the process can be. For **developers**,
migrations involve rewriting code, managing incompatibilities, and dealing with
unexpected errors, which slows down development and diverts the team from its strategic
priorities. **Project managers** face disrupted schedules due to unplanned migrations,
complicating resource management and jeopardizing deadlines. For **product managers**,
technological migrations add risks to product stability and increase costs, while
putting pressure on the company's ability to remain competitive in the market.

If nothing is done, if companies continue to delay critical decisions regarding
technological modernization, here is what could happen.

**Obsolete, unmaintained libraries would become gateways for devastating cyberattacks.**
Hospitals, unable to update their medical records management systems, would see their
infrastructures fail. Patients would be deprived of care, surgeries postponed, and the
security of sensitive data compromised. Power grids, transportation systems, all
connected to aging technologies, would become easy targets for sophisticated attacks
exploiting vulnerabilities that have been left open for far too long.

**Companies, having waited too long to act, would be overwhelmed by the urgency.**
Maintenance costs for outdated systems would skyrocket, forcing development teams to
focus their efforts on patching critical security flaws instead of innovating.
Migrations to modern technologies, once long-term projects, would become emergency
endeavors, rushed and without any guarantee of success.

Project managers would see their schedules completely derailed. Deadlines would become
impossible to meet, and teams would be scattered between managing incidents and handling
chaotic technical transitions. For managers, rising costs, **the loss of product
competitiveness**, and infrastructure vulnerabilities would become
**financial nightmares**.

In such a scenario, every new bug, every new exploitable security flaw, would be the
direct result of this inaction. Innovation would be paralyzed, user trust would be lost,
and even the survival of some critical systems would no longer be assured. If nothing is
done, the global economy and the digital infrastructures we take for granted could be
irreversibly compromised. The 2021 **Log4j vulnerability serves as a stark reminder** of
how a critical flaw in a widely-used but outdated library can wreak havoc globally, with
millions of applications exposed to remote attacks due to a single unpatched
vulnerability.

The culprits behind this looming catastrophe are clear and identifiable. On one hand,
there are those who cling to outdated technologies, unable or unwilling to recognize
their obsolescence. They refuse to accept that the world is changing, hiding behind
outdated systems under the excuse that "it's always worked this way." These defenders of
the status quo are often the same ones who, out of fear of change or to avoid short-term
costs, delay critical updates, thereby compromising the security and longevity of their
systems.

Then, there are the companies that embrace **false solutions**. Those that offer
temporary fixes, digital patches that only delay the inevitable, without ever addressing
the real issue: the need for full modernization. By doing so, they leave gaping
vulnerabilities in their infrastructure, opening the door to future disasters. These
companies, driven by short-term profits, perpetuate the dangerous illusion that it's
possible to maintain outdated systems while remaining competitive.

Finally, there are the **ideologies that promote inertia**, the ones that claim digital
transformation is just a passing trend, that the shift to modern technologies is
unnecessary or excessive. These misleading narratives, often supported by certain groups
within industries, feed a complacency that, if left unchecked, will lead directly to
crises of unprecedented scale.

In the face of this, it is now obvious that only decisive and comprehensive action can
prevent the disastrous consequences that threaten us. **The resistance to change, in all
its forms, will only accelerate the collapse**. It is time to call out these culprits
and understand that without true technological transformation, we are heading straight
for ruin.

**Our mission with Ladar is clear: to protect the future of our digital infrastructures**
by providing a concrete solution to technological obsolescence. In a world where
technological crises are intensifying and the risks of relying on aging technologies are
becoming unsustainable, it is **imperative to act now**. This is the moment to make the
right decisions and ensure a smooth transition to more modern, secure, and efficient
systems. Recent incidents, such as the Log4j vulnerability, are warnings that would be
dangerous to ignore. The longer we wait, the heavier the consequences will be.

Ladar offers a solution that is both **realistic and simple to implement**. Instead of
rebuilding everything from scratch, Ladar allows companies to migrate progressively,
without disrupting their production and while minimizing risks of error. We understand
that technology migration can seem daunting, but with the right tools, this process can
be not only feasible but also optimized. Our solution is designed to integrate
seamlessly into existing workflows, with minimal friction.

**Altruism is at the core of our actions**: we are responsible for others, for those
who depend on us, before even thinking of ourselves. Doctor is responsible of their
patient. Lawyer of their clients. In the same way, we acknowledge that the fate of
companies and users is tied to our technological decisions. The well-being and success
of our customers are in our hands.

A good professional is always seeking to improve and expand their knowledge. With
**Ladar**, we encourage this mindset by offering **shareable migration recipes** that
facilitate learning and collaboration among peers. These tools provide access to proven
solutions and allow the application of tested methods, all while contributing to
**raising the level of professionalism** for everyone.

**The usefulness of our approach is undeniable**. By modernizing obsolete systems, we
not only strengthen the security of infrastructures but also improve the productivity of
teams and the quality of final products. With up-to-date technologies, companies can
innovate faster, meet market demands more effectively, and guarantee their users
reliable and secure services. It creates a true competitive advantage, an undeniable
asset in a constantly evolving world.

Finally, our approach is guided by deep and **universal values**. By ensuring the
modernization of systems, we uphold principles such as **security**, **stability**, and
**responsibility**. By acting, we protect not only the interests of companies but also
**the security of users**, who deserve reliable and privacy-respecting digital services.
Promoting modern technologies also contributes to **equal opportunities** in a fair
digital environment, where everyone can thrive without being hindered by outdated
systems.

Thus, the solution we offer with Ladar is not only timely, feasible, and useful, but it
is also morally right. It embodies the values we must uphold in **the hyperconnected
world we live in**.

**It’s now time to act**. We can no longer afford to wait for the problems to worsen,
nor let outdated systems compromise our technological future. With Ladar, we have the
tools and solutions to start this transformation, but it depends on each one of you.

Here’s how you can contribute right now:

- **Join the migration recipe-sharing community:** Learn from others, share your own
  solutions, and help enrich collective expertise. Every shared experience strengthens
  our capabilities and improves results for everyone.

- **Integrate Ladar into your migration projects:** Don’t wait to start modernizing your
  systems. Use the available migration recipes to facilitate technology transitions
  within your teams and minimize risks of error.

- **Encourage your colleagues to get involved:** Altruism and collaboration are at the
  heart of our mission. Mobilize your teams, share knowledge, and create a culture where
  improvement and learning are priorities.

- **Take the initiative to strengthen the security of your infrastructures:** Analyze
  your current systems, identify vulnerabilities related to outdated technologies, and
  establish a migration plan. Protect your projects, your businesses, and the end users
  by acting now.

- **Contribute to discussions and exchanges:** Join the conversation on best practices,
  challenges to overcome, and necessary innovations. Actively participate in modernizing
  systems by bringing your ideas and benefiting from the shared experiences of your
  peers.

Now is the time to take responsibility as professionals, to aim for excellence, and to
actively contribute to securing our digital future. Together, with Ladar, we can build
stronger, safer, and more innovative systems. Every action counts. Every line of
modernized code will further open the doors to innovation.

**Now it's your turn**:

.. code::

   $ pip install ladar
